In India, we are building a Ram temple, and there people are blowing up Pakistan with a bomb.
And the people of Pakistan have great respect and affection for the people of Iran.
Iran attacks Pakistan.
I had not even dreamt that I would hear this news in 2024.
But this is a fact.
And that too when Jai Shankar ji met the leadership of Iran.
Pakistan is not going to sit quietly.
Pakistan will also give an answer to this.
In fact, there is still news that they have already retaliated.
War has reached us from Europe to Asia.
This video is going to be quite different from our other videos.
Because we are also very shocked.
We want to understand what is happening.
If you are also confused and want to know the possible reasons for this war,
then watch this video till the end.
We cover all the important events of the world for you.
We bring them to you in simple language.
Many of you have given us a lot of support in the last year.
Thank you from the bottom of my heart.
But if you have forgotten to click on that red subscribe button for any reason,
then take 2 seconds and click on that button.
Because it is free for you, but it gives us more courage to make new videos.
Chapter 1. Why did Iran attack?
After the Israel-Hamas war, if there is a country that has suddenly become very active,
then it is Iran.
Today Iran is in the news because they have attacked our dear neighbor Pakistan.
Missiles and drones have hit two bases of Baluchi militant group Jaish-e-Adil on Pakistani territory.
Some extremists of this terror group were hiding in Balochistan province of Pakistan.
This is what Iran has to say.
They attacked Iran last month, i.e. in December 2023.
In which 11 police officers lost their lives.
This attack happened near the border of Pakistan, in a town called Rask.
Jaish-e-Adil was responsible for this attack.
And this is not the only incident, friends.
Last year, in the month of July, four police officers were killed by this group on the border of Pakistan and Iran.
Who is this Jaish-e-Adil?
This is a Sunni militant group that was formed in 2012.
Today this group operates from Pakistan.
For this group, Iran blames Pakistan and Pakistan blames Iran.
Both countries say that they get militant activities from each other's soil to another country.
Iran says that they get terrorist attacks from Pakistani soil.
Even before this, Iran has taken such actions against terrorist groups.
But this level of action has happened for the first time.
And this is huge.
The most dangerous thing is that IRGC's military actions have started near the borders of Pakistan in the south-east of Iran.
Something similar to what Russia did on their border before attacking Ukraine.
Now let's understand the reaction of Pakistan after these attacks.
Chapter 2, Pakistan's reaction.
During the attack, the Pakistani PM was in Davos for the World Economic Forum.
After the attack, he came back to Pakistan.
Pakistan is a democracy of name only.
Not a single PM of Pakistan has completed his 5-year term.
Every PM of Pakistan is a puppet PM.
Pakistani military has complete control over their politics.
In such a situation, if Iran attacks Pakistan, how will Pakistan remain silent?
Islamabad called this attack illegal and said that there will be serious consequences.
Pakistan says that not only terrorists, but their citizens have also been targeted.
This attack on their sovereignty.
In a way, Pakistan believes that there are terrorist groups attacking their soil in other countries.
But there is nothing surprising in this.
As a revenge, Pakistan attacked Iran's terrorist outfits.
Pakistan says that their terrorists were killed in this attack.
What is the logic behind this?
WEBVTT
Trust me bro, because Pakistan has an amazing superpower
After being attacked by them, they get to know in a day
where the terror outfits are in other countries
And they can take action the very next day
Yes, if it was any other country, they wouldn't have waited for the attack
Iran is openly saying that they attacked Pakistan
Not any terror group
The funniest part is that the leaders of both the countries had just met
If they had to solve things through dialogue, it could have been done there as well
But Pakistan wants to portray that they too get terror attacks from other countries
So that's why they invented a new terror group
and also attacked Saistan and Baluchistan
This attack is a very deadly message for Iran
Because in 1988, the Iran-Iraq war ended
This war lasted for 8 years and approximately 5 lakh people lost their lives
After this, there was no rocket attack on Iran for so many years
Now this is broken, and that too because Iran attacked first
Pakistan says that there are many terror groups in Iran that secretly attack Pakistan
The attack that Pakistan did on Iran, they have given it a very interesting name
Margbar Sarmachar
In Persian, Margbar means Death to
and Sarmachar means Fighters
In 1979, when the Islamic Revolution took place,
this term was used against the people of the US and Israel
And even today, Iran's relations with both these countries are very tense
That is, Pakistan is openly calling Iran its enemy
and is not taking this attack lightly at all
Similarly, Iran shares its border with Balochistan
Balochistan has been wanting to separate from Pakistan for a long time
Pakistan has targeted the hideouts of the Balochistan Liberation Army and Balochistan Liberation Front
At least, this is the story that Pakistan wants to tell the whole world
This incident gives Pakistan an excuse to suppress their Balochistan revolution
Whatever actions Pakistan takes in Balochistan, it can impose on Iran
Because if Pakistan does not stop Balochistan,
then it is possible that Pakistan will be divided into four parts in the future
We have covered this point in a previous video
Things are developing very fast
And we know that Pakistan is not hesitating to retaliate
Chapter 3 Side Effects of War
Pakistan and Iran are both nuclear powers
Both have very unstable leadership
We have said before and will say again today that
In a war, there are no winners, there are only losers
Because both sides go to die
Resources are wasted on both sides
Trade is disrupted
The relations are broken
The whole world wants Iran and Pakistan not to fight with each other
They understand the reaction of the world
Even China has said that this should not be escalated
Mao Ning, who is in China's foreign ministry, has also said that the problem should be solved through dialogue
The United States has condemned Iran's missile strike
And they have also said that Iran has not done this once, but repeatedly
They have attacked Iraq and Syria
For some reason, Iran has been trying to enter the war for a long time
Before this, Iran has also attacked Syria and Iraq
Iran actually controls a secret group called Axis of Resistance
In which Yemen's Houthi rebels, Lebanon's Hezbollah and Hamas are also included
Because of Gaza, Axis of Resistance is getting stronger again
As if they are getting a purpose
Anti-West sentiments are getting very strong in the Islamic world
And this is quite dangerous
On January 12, the UK and the US attacked Houthi targets in Yemen
Because the Houthis were attacking commercial ships
Which was having an impact on global trade
Now it is possible that the attack on Pakistan is a message for the West
That Iran is not afraid to wage war directly
WEBVTT
Chapter 4 Conclusion
From this whole incident, we get to learn a lot about the attitude of both the countries.
If Iran is criticized, then Iran is already interfering in the war between Israel and Hamas.
It is hijacking the trade ships of the US and UK.
It is interrupting global trade.
In this, India should not be unnecessarily harmed.
India should not be involved in the conflicts of others.
That's why Jai Shankar was in Tehran.
But Iran has been becoming quite aggressive for the past few months.
On the other hand, how did Pakistan get to know that there are terror groups in Iran after being attacked by Iran?
If Iran itself says that they have attacked, then what is the need to look for a terror group?
How can Pakistan take action before taking any investigation?
This attack is less and a statement is more.
That Pakistan is not weak.
This message is not only for Iran, but also for the whole world.
Even for India.
That if India enters Pakistan in the name of surgical strikes, then this time Pakistan will also retaliate.
Yes, we don't know how effective this retaliation will be.
Here I really don't understand one thing.
That Pakistan is not made up of Afghanistan, India, or Iran.
It is made up of China only because they throw money.
The western world says that Pakistan raises snakes.
Their leaders call Osama a hero.
He gives shelter to people of extremist ideology.
In such a situation, if Pakistan says that terrorism has become a problem for them too, then what will the world think?
The world will think that they are getting a taste of their own medicine.
The snakes that they have raised, the same snakes are running to bite them.
And that's why we, India, have to adopt the same strategy that we take care of our own interests.
We have to play the game of geopolitics very carefully.
So that we keep good relations with everyone.
If we leave China today, then our relations with every big country are very strong.
Russia is also our friend and so is America.
We are also made up of Iran and Israel.
That means India is playing the role of a neutral country very well.
Today, the whole world needs this rational perspective.
Because with this rationality, our economy is flourishing.
Because we can control the impact of global events.
We can manage trade.
There is no winner in war.
That's why we have to oppose war forever.
Because somehow, directly or indirectly, war has an impact on us too.
And now, war has come to our neighborhood.
If you got some value from this video, if you got some clarity, then share it with your friends.
On the global stage, we have to take care of our image and our relations.
And Jai Shankar has played a very important role in this.
We will definitely share a very important video about his contributions with you tomorrow.
So make sure to subscribe.
Because in geopolitics, there are no permanent friends, only temporary interests.
And this is the important thing.
It makes a difference to me to reach you.
Reporter- Sunita Prajapati Script- Lakshmi Sharma Editor- Lakshmi Sharma Producer- Lakshmi Sharma